I am Hryhorii Skovoroda, Born in 1722
in Chornukhy, Kharkiv oblast, Ukraine.
I am a Philosopher and poet.
I was educated at the Kyivan
Mohyla Academy. I spend years in Kharkiv, teaching
poetics, syntax and Greek, and ethics at Kharkiv
College. Material support from friends enabled
me to devote myself to reflection and writing.
Most of my works were dedicated to my friends
and circulated among them in manuscript copies.
In my writings, the purpose of philosophy is
practical—to show the way to happiness. Hence, the
two central questions for me are what happiness is
and how it can be attained. For me, happiness is
an inner state of peace, gaiety, and confidence
that is attainable by all. To reach this state,
some understanding of the world and oneself
and an appropriate way of life are necessary.
I contributed to the doctrine of congenial work.
Although it is not metaphysically plausible,
it expresses my faith in the creative
potential of human beings and the possibility
of self-fulfillment in this life for everyone. My
poetic style, ideas, and moral example have played
an important role in the rebirth of Ukrainian
culture in the 20th century. Numerous great poets
such as Mykola Filiansky, and Pavlo Tychyna have
found inspiration in me. The fullest editions of
my works were published in many places across
the globe. My collected works in two volumes
were published in Ukrainian translation in Kyiv.
I died in 1794 in a village called Ivanovka. I
lived trying to make the world a happier
place, connecting souls before nations,
hearts before hands. I hope my contribution
to the world is still blooming to this day
with many fruits and colors. The world
tried to capture me but didn't succeed.